# Loan-Eligibility-Prediction

#### Problem Statement :-
Dream Housing Finance company deals in all home loans. They have a presence across all urban, semi-urban, and rural areas. Customer-first applies for a home loan after that company validates the customer eligibility for a loan.

The company wants to automate the loan eligibility process (real-time) based on customer detail provided while filling the online application form. These details exist in the dataset provided.

#### Business Understanding :-
It is a classification problem where we have to predict whether a loan would be approved or not for a particular loan application from customer. In a classification problem, we have to predict discrete values based on a given set of independent variable(s).

Usually we try to explore and understand the following:

What are we supposed to perform?
What outcome expected?
How does the outcome generated by ML solution benefit the stakeholder in answering the business question?

#### The dataset covers the following features/variables:

* Unique Loan Id
* Gender (Male/Female)
* Marital Status (Flag whether Married or Not)
* Number of Dependents
* Education (Graduate, Unde-Graduate, Post-Graduate, PhD etc.)
* Self_Employed flag (Yes / No)
* Applicant Income
* Co-Applicant Income
* Loan Amount
* Loan Amount Term (in Months)
* Credit History (credit history meets guidelines or not - 1 or 0 etc.)
* Property Area (falls in which area - Urban / Semi-Urban / Rural etc.)
* Loan Status (Approved Yes or No)
* To automate this process, they have given a problem to identify the cusomer's segments, those are eligible for loan amount so that they can specifically target these customers. Here they have provided a partial data set.
